banks are literally printing money right
now thanks to an emergency program of
the fed and I'm going to break that all
down for you today you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you I
want you to know what's going on here
because you can see that the crisis
that's been created inside the financial
system is still continuing I'm going to
show you three parts in this video
you're going to see what the central
banks are actively doing and then we're
going to look at this emergency that's
been Tak place and has given the banks
an excuse to make more money yet again
and then we're going to look at another
aspect we all need to pay attention to
right here in this video let's begin by
taking a look at the central banks
rethinking forecasting after failures on
inflation the ECB the fed and the Boe
overlooked potential for Global price
spikes after the end of 2020 and what
happened with Russia and Ukraine and so
what we see here is that look you cannot
do this forecasting model of saying yeah
we're going to be at 2% all of these
things were real funny until they
started to
say inflation is transitory how many
people remember that well I saw it
everywhere I saw it basically from the
very top from the central Bankers all
the way down into the YouTube world I
saw it over and over again team
transitory we even heard that term and
it kind of seems like a obvious lie
today but only to those who are paying
attention it was funny with the whole
transitory thing because some people
were saying no absolutely not but they
also then were the same people that were
saying the Federal Reserve would not
increase interest rates and there was a
very few that a very select few who were
actually saying uh the right thing in
both circumstances so be able to
pinpoint those individuals out there
okay ACB balance sheet QT okay this is
QT means quantitative tightening and
that means getting rid of the stuff that
they bought so on their balance sheet
they're getting rid of it €
1.94 trillion EUR so let's say 2
trillion Euro give or take you know down
from that Peak unbelievable and and
falling under said trillion EUR at this
time so you will see that they got rid
of
47% of the assets that they purchased uh
throughout this 2020 period interesting
now there's still over7 trillion and
when are they going to stop the
expectation is uh coming around next
year but that's it you could see that
now massive obviously you compare to the
years prior which you know seems like
yesterday but the financial crisis time
frame where they basically had little to
none and now today we can congratulate
them that they only have 7 trillion or a
7 trillion EUR worth and this is the
kind of thing that happens the
normalization of the balance sheet that
we kept her hearing about back then is
really a new normal and that's why we
don't hear about it anymore this is
something to keep note of the expansion
of the balance sheet the slight
reduction in balance sheets and the
inevitable expansion yet again more
inflation what has happened though more
recently fed likely to end Bank funding
program in March this is the bank term
funding program which was set to expire
March 11th 2024 so this is a one-year
program the Federal Reserve set this up
as we had the different banks starting
to fail in 20 23 that was svb and
Signature Bank all these other Banks
started failing and of course that
spread around the world credit s you
know what happened if not please join me
on the channel here because I do break
down all of the absolute most important
information that gets into the absolute
fin finite uh information the details uh
that you really don't find because look
I'm not going for the clicks I'm not
going for the views I'm going for what I
believe is most important and this Bank
term funding program is something that
I've been talking about extensively
since it came out and we are getting to
the point where it's going to expire and
that leads me to something
extremely extremely important you see
this chart here well let me cover a few
points from it you got to understand
something Banks can go in and they can
borrow from this emergency program okay
the btfp
they can borrow from that and currently
at this time it it's at the time of
recording by the time you watch it if
you're watching this you know a month
later might be a different story but at
this time they're borrowing at
4.8% they can borrow at 4.8% okay but
then they can take that cash and they
can park that at the fed and earn on
that
5.4%
so you see what's happening here they're
printing money left right and Center all
day long they're doing it from morning
until night think about that they found
the easiest full
proof absolutely unbelievable way for
them on that Arbitrage on that spread to
make guaranteed actually for them it's
guaranteed money not much
but this is something that they can just
keep throwing cash into and we see the
reserves everybody in my finance Friday
live classes money GPS Finance live
which is a closed group of people Link
in the description if you want that that
I mean we talk about the reserves all
the time and you will note
specifically that those reserves have
been
rising and during this period of time as
they've been rising this has as well do
you see people the you know the
basically the investors the banks
they've been going in and utilizing that
btfp more and more and more and more and
more and then they take that cash and
they put it at the FED for their
reserves and do you think the FED
doesn't you know they don't like this of
course they like it they love those
reserves being over there because that
has a stimulative effect on the stock
market that's like mic drop moment
explosions rainbows in the sky unicorns
are flying everywhere you got to put the
pieces
together understand this this temporary
program is one reason of many that we
have seen the reserves increase and
reserves what is a reserve so think
about this you are an individual you
take your $100 to the bank Commercial
Bank you deposit that at the bank well
that bank is able to then loan out a
percentage of that fractional Reserve
banking they're able to loan that out
into the market they can you know you
know do Home Loans they can uh take that
cash any whatever they want to do with
it but it's fractional Reserve right now
of course the reserve requirement is
zero but let's just assume there there
was some reserves they take that cash
and they Park Park the uh cash at the
Federal Reserve those are excess
reserves anything on top of whatever the
reserve requirement is excess reserves
happen to
correlate very very closely with the
stock market performance so we've had
Rising
reserves and what have we had with the
stock market that's right that's what
the money mirror method is all about
that's how I was able to p point the
exact bottom of the stock market last
year that's how I was able to determine
so many other things because I am
watching the markets at this level of
depth which you do see others you know
go into it but their whole interest is
to provide a video that gets you to
watch from all the way to be the
beginning all the way to the end no I am
here for the people who actually want to
know the truth I'm not trying to make a
video that has all this you know I I
watched one guy his video and I
basically got a seizure while I was
watching it so much flashing on the
screen here we have it you could see
that bank term funding program that rate
of 4.85% it's becoming more and more
attractive and at the bottom uh or at
the Blue Line there excuse me is the
basically interest on the reserve
balances so at
5.4% you see the difference in between
these two like I said by the time you're
watching this you're going to be getting
other information but you can assume
that if you're watching this when it
first releases that the rates are at
this and we have seen the largest spread
in between these two right now it's
becoming more and more attractive okay
and that's the deal that's the situation
and this is in fact creating stimulus at
a time in which we have quantitative
tightening so when you're asking
yourself look buddy I thought you said
that you know the you know the market
was weak the economy is weak it's not
look at the stock market like when you
start breaking it down at the money
mirror method
levels then you start understanding yeah
it's stimulus it's coming from one place
or another and so that's going to stop
in March this btfp that's the
expectation one year we give it a go yes
but then when did they start cutting
interest rates we've been told in March
and why March well March is very
important because that would be
historically if you look at the previous
Cycles historically from the last time
they start actually you know increasing
rates until they start cutting rates
it's it's bang on bang on now it can go
longer it could be shorter
whatever historically on average it
happens to be bang on and so you know if
it's not March is it the next meeting
after is it two meetings after look once
that one stimulus ends it's not too long
until the next begins so keep that in
mind the inflationary forces are at work
this is showing us the deposits both
with the uh large Banks and the small
and certainly there's no question about
that when we look at the large they're
losing out and I think part of that is
what's going on with money markets
because hey I don't want to leave it in
the bank I don't want to just leave it
in my Traditional Bank right now I want
to put that in a place where I can earn
5% on it and the uh small Banks I think
people are concerned about different
things they're not necessarily trying to
earn anything maybe they're trying to
just put it in the bank keep it safe and
that's the way it goes but you can take
what you want from that and this is is
just showing us the regional Banks so
despite the concern and I'll show you
you stayed until the end the big
concerns for banks right
now you have this Regional Banks they
don't seem to care they don't seem to
care what's going on right now in the
financial industry they should banking
crisis plays out at America's smallest
lenders Rural Community Banks are at
risk from giant underwater Bond
portfolios
and so this becomes a big
problem are they going to actually admit
no they just go just like we saw last
year they go right off the cliff Wy
coyote style and then we find out about
it it's the same thing that happened
during the financial crisis it wasn't
until all the problems were revealed
that things started to come up in the
news is it suspicious at all well you
tell me
look at this where you're looking at
these banks in a crisis they are dealing
with this but what else do they have to
deal
with US Banks could get slammed with
another $160 billion in losses as
commercial real estate faces biggest
crash since
2008 guess who holds a lot of that
commercial or supporting a lot of that
commercial real estate it's the small
Regional
lenders this is the biggest part
of this whole mess this is the big
concern is the Federal Reserve going to
stop their temporary temporary emergency
funding
program we'll see I'm not so sure but if
they
do then you have this crisis getting
even worse and so I am very interested
to see how this all unfolds what do you
think about it how do you think it will
play out and when will the Federal
Reserve begin their next cutting cycle
their next money printing cycle will it
come as a result of some of these
smaller Banks starting to topple the
medium Banks starting to topple the
large Banks or will it be as a result of
something else we haven't even seen yet
it's a very interesting
circumstance everybody on my money GPS
Finance live class is already a head of
the game because I break this down into
each possible detail and I give an
update every single Friday we go for two
hours over Zoom small class I get into
that the money mirror method they are
much further advanced than the general
public because they know it all they
have seen this all and I've been
tracking it week to week and so it's
expected it's an expectation because
when we're looking at it like this I
mean it can't be
avoided look if you want to get in on
that I would welcome you in I think it
would be fantastic to see you there the
link is in the description you can get
all the information so you go to that
link at the top of the description read
through the whole page you hit apply
that will email me and we can get the
conversation going I hope that you'll be
there if you found this informative hit
that thumbs up button when you do you're
supporting the channel and notifying the
algorithm this is some good stuff so
I'll see you on the next one take care